---
layout: post
title:  "Lecture 2"
date:   2016-01-21 10:15:29 +0100
categories: lecture2
---



## Intro

Chapter 20-22


## Computer networking

* A network provides connectivity among a set of computers
* A computer network is a collection of autonomous computers interconnected


## Traceroute

traceroute shows the way you are travelling to the server.
The hops that is show are the routern witch the package travels trough.

{% highlight bash %}
➜  ~  traceroute google.com
traceroute to google.com (216.58.209.110), 64 hops max, 52 byte packets
 1  10.252.0.1 (10.252.0.1)  10.766 ms  11.658 ms  9.781 ms
{% endhighlight %}



## Universal service

Old telephones are useful because telephone can reach any other telephone

Universal service among computers greatly.

To provide universal service among all computers on an internet, routers must agree to forward information from a source on one network to a specific destination on another network.
The task is complex because frame formats and addressing schemes used by the underlying networks can differ.


## Internetworking

* "A protocol for Packet Network Intercommunication"(Cerf & Kahn -1974)
* Routers forward packaets fom source to destination, may cross many separate networks along the way
* All packets use a common Internet Protocol(IP)
  * Any underlying data link protocol
  * Any higher layer transport protocol



## Protocols and layers

* Higher layers
  * Application
  * Presentation
* Middle layers
  * Session
  * Transport
  * Network
* Lower layers
  * Data link
  * Physical


## Routers

A router is a strore-and-forward devide:

* Routers are connectied to multiple netwroks
* on each network


## Internet Protocol(IP)

Imposes few demands on the network

* Make few assumptions about what network can do
* No QoS, no reliability, no ordering, no large packets
* No persistent state about communications, no connections.


Manage heterogeneity at hosts (not in network)


## IP delivery model

Best Effort Service, network will do


## What does IP do?


## IP Address (IPv4)

* A unique 32-bit number
* Intentifies an interface (on a host, on a router, ...)
* Represented in dotted-quad notation (a.b.d.c)
  * Each quad is 8 bits
  * ex: 192.168.0.1
* Hierarchical: Network and host parts



## Grouping related hosts

The Internet is an "inter-neetwork"

* used to connect networks together, not hosts
* needs way to address a network (i.e., group of hosts)



## CIDR?

* CIDR makes packet forwarding harder.
* Efficient


## MTU?

* Largest IP datagram that can be carrried within a frame
* Typically 1500 bytes for Ethernet

